user account management.
This is the lesson we are going to cover how we could automate these user account creation
.
Now,
why do we need to create user account?
Ah,
and why do we have to have automation around when we all we have to do is to run a user,
add command,
right?
Well,
that's very good question,
But what happened is sometimes you are working in an environment where your system it is
also being accessed by other users.
Let's say key warrior development,
and they also need to create user account for their own group.
But they don't have root privileges.
Um,
or that's one reason that you need to automate the user account creation that you could.
You don't want them to run user at command and,
you know,
make a mistake or mess up USC password file,
or even delete uses accidentally so you don't want to give them root access.
So what do you do is you created an automation tool,
which will allow them to Onley.
Enter the users.
Here's a name and some information,
and it will create that account for you.
You could actually create Sue Do writes for them and that's how they could do it.
That's one of the reason that mostly people do.
And that's one of the reason I created that script in the past as well.
Where I was working environment There's ICTY Co was huge,
but they were all interlinked where there was a cure department development apartment and,
um ah,
database group networking group all needed access to the user accounts and Lennox.
So we didn't want to give them the full access.
We created this automation.
Well,
another way is that even if you do not have that type off environment,
you're the only one you want to create users.
You could create them,
but then again,
you could produce or at command.
You would have to remember it again.
What was the option chosen whether that,
um,
use already exists or not.
But anyway,
this is what this whole lesson is about.
What are we going to cover in this lesson is that first thing is we will create a script
that will simp really create a user account by just asking,
Um,
what is is using name and the user account is created and done.
Seconds that I will create is it will error out if the user already exists.
Let's say if you are creating an account that say,
Jerry,
and if a jerry account already exists,
it will ever out and I will tell you Hey,
this account already exists.
Second thing that I want to add a za third script is add a user now you could use user add
minus C option to provide the description.
But most of time people do forget to input that description.
Are Jews that my C option?
So we could add that to the script as well.
The fourth script that we will write will combine everything,
but also add the user with I d option meaning if you want to create a user,
it some Pacific user,
i d.
It will ask you to put that user I d in and we're creating.
So what happened is Lennox system,
and you do user at command followed by the user.
It will auto generate a user i d.
Based on the S E password,
and it will add one to the last created user I D.
And it will give the user i d to the account,
but more sometimes there are applications that require Pacific user account.
So for that purpose,
you have to specify user I d.
And then the last group that I will create fifth script with you is adding everything that
we discuss all four scrip.
But but that people also error out if their user I d exists,
it will do the check.
So this is a whole combined script.
It's a little longer script,
so we'll cover that one scrip at a time.
So again,
I have my machine right here.
My lyrics machine and to,
um,
save time,
save my time,
Save your time While your time is more swell,
more valuable S o.
I have created through five scripts already.
And if you notice I have these five scripts create user one creatures of 2345 I will go
over each script one at a time,
but you have to write those scripts again.
Those scripts are in the text document Attash to this lesson.
You could download that,
um,
no pad on and you could view that text fall and then simply copy paste or type it.
I would prefer that you type most of the time and you copy Paste.
Something goes wrong with the script and doesn't war so tight anyway.
So let's look at our first script.
The I Create user one.
All right,
variable on the day description describable to create a user account.
Modify date.
I already have that again.
No waste of time.
Next thing echo,
please per wide.
Ah,
user name.
This is simply it's asking your users to provide the user name and it's going to read,
um,
input and Ecologists line and then simply is going to run the command user.
Add with the variable and variable we have you and the variable is the one that's provided
by the user.
And then,
once that account is created,
is going to see echo.
User account has been created.
Simple right?
Straightforward,
yes.
So let's run it.
Create user one.
Please provide a user name.
Jerry Hit.
Enter Jerry.
Account has been created.
Perfect.
My script ran awesome verified Grip Jerry from password file and you will see it created
the Jerry account with User I.
D.
Group I D Home Directory and my show.
That's the first group.
Second is I wanted to create a script that will ask the same thing,
but it will ever out the the user that hate this user already exist.
So I can't create as user i d for that.
So for for for that script I have created second script called That's clear,
B.
I create user too.
Hit Enter.
Same thing again to the ah little modify description.
Please provide user I d.
S are using name read user read you echo right here,
command.
That's where it's I'm adding that check it will check if they use their existence.
How is gonna check right here First is going to run the command grab,
but mine is Q option.
Que is a silent mode.
Don't show anything on the screen and grab the user,
which is that container would just use a specified from etc past.
Okay,
good.
Now I'm saying if the error code is equal to sorry,
the the exit status is equal to zero.
Meaning if it does find it right,
If my command is successful,
it will give me zero right?
And the only way it could be successful if it actually returned something.
So if it is zero,
then echo ever user.
This variable already exists Echo please choose another user name.
Echo Exit zero.
Just exit out.
Don't do anything feet.
If that is not equal to zero.
If it's something else,
then it will add the user.
Then we'll go through it.
If this goes through.
If this checks is work perfect than error out otherwise you run this command user,
add your user account has let's run it create.
Used to please provide user name.
We created a user name earlier,
Jerry.
Right,
Well created again and it stays Error.
User Jerry already exists.
Please choose another user name.
That's what we wanted to do if I run the same command again.
And this time I picked another user.
Let's say Cramer,
this is Kramer.
Account has been created.
You could check that and you will see right here.
Cramer was user I d.
And from 1003 to 1004 it added one number to it.
Okay,
so this is a 2nd 3rd script we wanted to do is add user description right here.
The 3rd 1 ad use a description.
So the way you could add,
use the descriptions by running the command,
use or add,
and the user name whatever and minus C is the option.
And then you put in the code,
um uh,
system,
admin guy or whatever,
and then you run it,
but most of time,
people don't use that.
But we want to force that user to add values.
Your description.
So I created a script.
The I create.
Use a three added hub data description.
Same thing.
Please provide user name.
It will do the check.
Same thing if the user exists,
it will come down right here.
Next one echo,
please provide.
I use a description read de as invariable.
And then right here says user,
add the variables you minus C option for description and the d the description.
The reason I put a coat around D variable is because,
as you could actually add,
use a description with spaces.
So if you have spaces,
then you have to have a coat around.
All right.
Time to run it.
Create years of three.
Please provide user name this time.
Let's pick Cramer.
I'm not gonna work because cream were already exists running in new one.
Please provide using name.
So this time will pick George enter.
Please provide us a description.
George care.
And,
uh,
George account has been created.
Perfect.
This is what we want it now.
Less confirmed.
Okay,
See,
it has a user name the updated user I d.
And a description right here,
user.
Ah,
description is George.
A care goes to home directory and bash.
This is our,
um,
third script,
which is to address it.
Four scrip is to add a user I d.
Now what if you don't want the Lennox to pick a society for you?
You want to specify that users perfect.
Clear the screen for that I have already created.
And scrip,
which is create user four dinner Updated The description now here.
Same thing.
Echo.
Please provide user name.
Everything is the same.
To check if user account exists right here.
Echoey,
please provide us a description.
And now from here,
this point on this is a new stuff we have added.
This is gonna ask this user echo.
Do you want to specify a user I d Because we also want to give the use of the option to say
yes or no.
Or we could just simply force a user to say Hey,
please enter user I D.
But What if you if the user doesn't want to add it?
They wanted Lennox to pick itself.
So that's why we have given the user bought option.
I just specify yes or no.
So we're gonna say echo.
Do you want to specify user?
I d Why?
Slash and read.
And this is a variable.
I just pick why and you echo now here we saying,
if the variable equal why why I pick equal equal sign?
Because this is what works Would letters If I had digit or entered your dear,
I would pick dash e que But since it's a letter I'm picking equal equal why So what I'm
saying is,
if the user enters,
why then,
Eckel,
please,
and to use right,
right,
Perfect.
And then once the Jews ideas entered put that in a variable and named the variable You I d
Okay,
And then what to do and then simply use their i d bits and has been specified.
Then you run the commanders or add minus U minus c with the description and mine issue is
mine.
Issue is the option to add user i d and use I t is the one that's been specified by the
user.
And this question Perfect echo,
echo user account.
Now,
what if the user say's no if the user pic No,
I don't want it to pickle.
You're so I d Then what do you do then?
You come down here,
then you say l If the statement is you have to use is l.
If remember,
we we had if then else but else does is else Ah,
if you say yes then do then do this else drew whatever that you specify.
But now since we have to specifically say and as the letter en So that's why we have to
pick l if l f user input is right here.
No,
which is n then what you do is eco.
No worries.
We will assign a user i d is just a friendly message epic.
Then what do you do?
Is user add with minus u minus c for the description and the description that's been to
specified right here in this variable and then echo co user account has been created.
See,
done.
And this fee is coming from this if you always have to end If see,
that's pretty much it guys for the fourth script.
Save it.
And now let's run.
Creatures are account for.
Please provide user name.
Um,
Cramer.
Um Creamer ordered exist.
Okay,
no problem.
Pick another one.
Please provide user name.
George.
Uh oh.
I created George already.
Sorry.
Okay,
but it's a good check,
right?
Okay.
Please For why use the name Elaine.
Enter.
Perfect.
Please provide us a description.
Elaine.
Jerry,
friend and a Now it's going to get into use.
Right?
Do you want to specify user I d.
This time I will say yes.
Then it's going to say now,
since you hit.
Why now?
Please enter the user I d.
I will say 1000 seven.
I hope it's not picked under Elaine.
Account has been created.
Perfect.
Yea,
this confirmed at sea.
Elaine?
Yes.
The description with the user.
I d.
Perfect.
Awesome.
Okay,
now everything is working as expected.
Last thing we wanted to do is what if I had picked a user I d.
That's been assigned to Let's say,
cherry,
which is 1003.
It would have been a problem,
right?
Yes,
but before we put that fort script,
let's the rules do.
Let's run that script again,
and this time will pick.
No,
just to make sure our no works as well,
right?
You want to test both options?
Creators of four,
please provide user name.
So I picked already all four characters going on to the next one,
huh?
Bobby Peck.
Ah,
what's the characters off Seinfeld show?
This is ready for my I'm picking those user cactus.
How about,
um David,
You guys know David Puddy?
Probably if you watch Seinfeld show.
That's a David Puddy.
Elaine's boyfriend.
Ah,
so you'll pick just David enter.
Please provide us a description date.
Elaine.
Boyfriend Do you want specify?
User I d.
I would say no this time.
It says no worries.
We will assign a user i d.
This is what we wanted to do,
right?
David?
Account has been created.
Okay,
let's see what I did has been assigned I Society eight.
Okay.
Hey,
why didn't it a sign?
Anything after Jerry or you know what?
Let's do cat password and you notice it has three.
34 2005 six is not taken.
78 Why didn't assign six?
Well,
this is by default,
but Lennox always picks the I d from the last i d.
So if it's last,
I d that see when?
If I change into 10 it will pick.
The next one is 11.
That's Ah,
this accounting mechanism it has.
So that's how it picked anyway.
Let's go back to our script.
Let's not talk about how it creates user account now.
The last one and the last one is the longest.
One is that we wanted to do everything that we just did.
It's clear the screen.
But this time we want to do is last one error out of user I d exist.
OK,
so we do everything.
But this time,
if the user ideas picked that is already in debt,
See file.
I wanted to ever out No problem.
Let's see how we could add that in there.
So I have created a script for it.
Creators of five everything.
The same description is the modified same thing.
Please provide Use user name checking the user name exist.
Next one is Please provide us a description then echo.
Do you want to special user I d.
This is what we did in the last group or affect Everything is perfect.
Now right here.
If you notice this is the part that I added.
So if you are creating this script,
I would recommend you to copy your create creatures Air Force scrip and paste it as a new
one.
Ah,
name it.
Create five.
And then you could modify.
But coming directly into this line where it says read,
use already.
Then you add these lines here.
All right.
So what?
This line is good again.
It's going to do the same thing.
Group que user i d from password.
Remember the same way we did.
If you go back up to check the user i d right here It did the same thing right from etc
Password So the same mechanism or same Syntex of the scriptural will implement right here.
So we'll do great que which is silent user i d which is specified by the user right here
from etc past.
And if the status um,
the exit status is zero then meaning if it finds it an echo averages their i d already
exists.
Go empty line Exit X zero meaning completely exit entire script.
Okay.
If it does not exist If it does not exist then Ron User,
Add with minus you option time,
not mine.
Is your option with minus you.
Ah,
variable minus C as a description.
De is the description variable minus you and issues.
Right?
Okay.
And then echo user account has already been created.
This is the check,
right?
If the check past,
it will create that.
Now,
this one next coming down here,
it's the same thing that we have.
If the user says no,
then you simply come to this one and run.
Okay,
so let's run this script real quick and five.
And this time I'm gonna pick.
Um um uh,
Stella people I uses description Still,
uh,
his mother did.
Mother of George.
Anyway,
do you want to specify use ready?
Yes,
and and to use I t 00 six.
I know users use this.
So there's a seven.
I know.
User 007 idea has been take,
so I'm gonna put it in just a test and says areas where I d already taken.
Right?
So I know the user.
I d six is not taken,
so I'm gonna put that in this time.
Stella.
Stella is mother.
Yes,
1006 and sell account has been created.
Perfect group for Stella.
That's the password,
and you will see it has been assigned user I D.
Six.
And when you do cat at sea password and you'll see it's at the bottom.
Next time you create an account,
it will automatically checks for I D and a pencil new one.
But if a new one is already taken,
it will give you it automatically goes to the next one.
Anyway,
this is about this user account management.
Ah,
I hope you have learned a lot from this lesson.
It's a very useful scrip,
tried out a different options and different way that you wanted to add a user.